Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video we're going to be adding
waits to our search.
Sometimes, when you're interacting with a page
that uses JavaScript,
things are not gonna happen immediately.
For example, you may select an author
from the dropdown and then it may take you
a couple of seconds before the tags dropdown
is populated.
Although the page we're using is very fast,
other pages may be much slower
and you'll have to wait.
The easiest way to wait
is to do time.sleep
and add like five seconds.
You need to import time if you're gonna do this
so let's do that at the top.
Time comes with Python
so you don't have to instal anything,
and what this does in Python
is it just stops everything
for five seconds.
If you run app.py now
and you type Bob Marley and music,
you'll see that Chrome opens,
Bob Marley is selected,
and then nothing happens for five seconds,
and eventually music is selected.
Again, you may need to wait
if your programme is too fast for the website.
However, sometimes time.sleep
is not appropriate.
In fact, most of the time time.sleep
is not appropriate because it waits
for five seconds even if the element
is available after one second.
Fortunately, Selenium comes with a way
to wait until something happens.
So what you can do is you can wait
until the different options of the tag
have become available.
And that's what we're gonna do
instead of time.sleep.
What we'll do is we will
go head and import a couple of things
that we're gonna need.
So, no longer need time there.
So we're gonna need these three things:
from selenium webdriver common by import by.
We're gonna need selenium webdriver support
expected conditions, and selenium webdriver
support wait web driver wait.
Then let's go back down to our search
and here we're going to do a wait until.
So we're gonna do webdriver wait
and we're gonna pass in the browser
and the maximum amount of time
we want to wait.
And then we're gonna do until.
This is a, what's called an implicit wait,
but it is a fairly explicit implicit wait.
So, this type of wait is going to wait
until something happens,
and what's gonna happen is we're gonna say
expected conditions.presence of element located.
And then in here, we pass in a tuple
of By CSS Selector
and the Quotes Page Locators.
Tag Dropdown Value Option.
This doesn't exist yet, by the way,
but let me just explain what's going on first.
We're gonna wait up to 10 seconds
until the element is in the page.
It doesn't have to be visible.
It just has to be in the page.
And this is the element
that we're gonna look for.
We're gonna look for this thing
and we're telling Selenium
that that thing is a CSS selector.
If this thing was an element ID,
you could do By ID.
If that thing was something else,
you could do all of these,
ID, xpath, link text, partial link test,
name, tag name, class name, or CSS selector.
So these are all the different options
for searching and up till now
we've only been using
find element by css selector.
So we've not had to use by class.
But the expected conditions module here
does need the by and the locator,
and you have to say both of them.
So, then we have to go and create this locator here.
And this locator is going to be select tag.
So it's basically an element inside this select,
and it is an option that has a value.
So if the options don't have a value,
they won't match the selector.
But if any option inside the selector
has a value, then it will match the selector
and we'll be able to find it.
So, what it's saying is
wait until that tag select
has an option that has a value,
and you wait up to 10 seconds.
The reason for it is that
if you right-click on this tag name here
and you look at this one specifically,
you'll see that there're multiple options in there.
But only the actual tags have an option.
The first option in the select
doesn't have a value.
It's just a bunch of dashes.
So, when you don't have an author selected,
then these selects here
don't have options with values,
it only has an option without a value.
And as soon as you select an author,
then you have your different values
appearing there.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna wait
for an option with a value to appear
and that's for how long we're going to wait.
Notice that if it's instant,
then this is gonna be instant as well
or almost instant and if it's not,
then this is gonna wait up to 10 seconds.
The way this works internally
is it just checks every now and then
to see if it's appeared.
Once again, this just works the same way.
We type Bob Marley
and then we type music
and you see that now it's almost instant
because that appears very quickly.
But if you run it and if we like
quotes from this author,
what you'll see is that it's gonna wait
up to 10 seconds after launching Chrome.
Because by selecting this author
this hasn't changed and there are no tags
in there, no options that have a value.
And after 10 seconds you'll see an error appeared.
"An unknown error appeared.
"Please try again."
Hopefully, all of this makes sense.
The whole waiting is very important
when you're using Selenium.
You're gonna have to be waiting
a lot of the time when you're interacting
with JavaScript websites
because things can take a while.
If the website has to talk to a server
that can take some time.
And you just don't want to be
faster on the website.
And not only that, but sometimes
you actually want to be deliberately slow
because users can be slower as well.
So, waiting, very important.
I've just scratched the surface here
in this video.
You've got explicit and implicit waits.
Explicit wait is when you actually
tell Python how long to wait for.
Implicit waits is when you wait
until a certain amount of time
or up to a certain amount of time.
So, thanks for joining me in this video.
I hope you've learned something.
I'll see you on the next one.